How to Create a Canvas Page 

Last Updated 8/19/20

# Access your Faculty page on myASU. Your assigned sections should appear under
My Classes on the Home screen.

# Click the rectangular icon that looks like a little webpage with a +. Hovering
over this icon will display the text "Create a Canvas class".

# This will take you to the next screen to set up your course. It is recommended
to set up each section individually, as setting up multiple sections at the same
time requires the creation of a .csv file with a specific format. Do not select
"Request a Canvas training/development/organization course".

# Enter the information for your assigned section. The SLN is the Section Line
Number listed for your specific section.

# Click search, then select the section. You may find more than one section
listed, one with your name as the instructor, and one with the name of the
faculty member in charge of the labs. It is recommended to click on the section
with your name listed, though it's unclear if this will affect anything.

# Continue to follow the instructions on the next few screens. Do not click "Add
Sections". Adding another section here will combine both Canvas pages into one
so people from multiple sections will be combined. This is not recommended as
different sections will have different schedules and due dates.

# If you have multiple sections it is recommended to add the day of the lab to
the title of the course. For example: "AST 113: Astronomy Laboratory I (2020
Fall) Tuesday".

# On the following screen it is recommended that if you have not taught the labs
before to start a new Canvas class from scratch. All Canvas files will be
provided. If you have taught the class before and used Canvas you can copy your
previous Canvas page. There is also the option to copy a course from another
instructor, however I'm not sure how this works. If possible you can copy the
AST 113 Canvas pages from Kelley Liebst (although at the time of writing this
document my pages are not fully set up).

# When prompted to select instructors for the course delete Dr. Windhorst so
that he doesn't get emails and announcements from all sections (in the future
be sure to ask the faculty member in charge of the labs what their preference
is). Also be sure to set yourself as the instructor. TA role in Canvas does not
have as much functionality as the Instructor role.

# No additional resources are needed.

# Double check the information you have entered is correct and select "Create
Canvas Course" to submit your course request.

# Repeat for other sections.

# It can take a little while for your course to be created but you should
receive an email when it's ready.

