Date: Wed, 27 Jan 2016 00:35:04 -0700
From: Rhonda Holton <rkholton@asu.edu>
To: Rogier Windhorst <Rogier.Windhorst@asu.edu>, Teresa Ashcraft
<Teresa.ashcraft@asu.edu>, Bhavin Ashok Joshi <bajoshi@asu.edu>, Nathan Smith
<Nathan.David.Smith@asu.edu>, Duho Kim <Duho.Kim@asu.edu>, Jake Hanson
<Jake.Hanson@asu.edu>, Stephanie Stawinski <stephanie.stawinski@asu.edu>
Subject: Telescope Lab Notes

Hey Everyone,

Tonight, I did the first telescope lab where I have students drive the
telescopes themselves. I wanted to share some of my experiences with you.

1) I initially started out by having all of my students align their telescopes
as a class. DO NOT do this. Since the first activity has you turn off the
telescope to measure the field of view, it resets all the alignments and your
students will have to do it all over again for section

2. Originally, I thought this would be ok because it would give them practice
aligning. In the end, it simply took too much time. Instead, I recommend the
following:

- Give them a quick tour of the night sky. I showed them Orion, the Pleiades,
Taurus, and Polaris.

- Have them turn on their telescopes and use the control paddle to move the
telescope manually to Sirius. They should be able to first line it up in the
telrad and then find it in their eyepiece

- Once they find Sirius in their eyepiece, have them move the star to just
outside the RIGHT side of their field of view and turn off the motor

- Wait until Sirius enters the field of view and start the stopwatch. When
Sirius move out of the field of view on the other side, stop the stop watch.

- This is their 1st measurement for Exercise 1. Wash, rinse, repeat for the
other measurements.

AFTER they have finished Exercise 1, THEN lead them through aligning the
telescope. They will use this alignment for completing parts 2 and 3. Because
you will have students complete Exercise 1 at different times, this may mean
explaining the alignment process several times. Teresa has a print out that
should help. Most of my students took home that print out by accident, but I
will try to print out more before tomorrow's lab.

2) Choose Sirius and Caph for your aligning stars. (Or Sirius and Polaris.) I
was originally planning on using Capella, but for some reason, after aligning
on Sirius, Capella does not show up on the list of stars you can align off of.
Caph and Polaris are both options that you can use.

3) For exercise 2, you will want to use an extended object, if you can. I had a
couple students who did their alignment well enough to find the Orion Nebula,
which they liked to see. Some students did the moon (for which I provided
neutral density filters). Teresa recommended using the Pleiades as a good
object for Exercise 2.

4) WARN YOUR STUDENTS to keep an eye on the power cords. If they get wrapped
too far around the telescope, then it will hurt the cord. I had a group snap a
cord connection this way, and now that power cord is useless. (Teresa found a
replacement cord for that telescope.) Warn them at the beginning. Warn them
again as you show them how to align their telescopes. And warn them a third
time as they are working on the lab.

About 1/3 of my students got through all 3 activities. All but 1 group got
through exercises 1 and 2, and only 1 group did not quite complete exercise 2.
I think that by adjusting my teaching, as listed above, I can get most of my
students through all 3 exercises, but I will keep you guys informed.

Some final notes:

- Keep an eye on the telrads. Some of the batteries are starting to get low.
Make sure you turn them off when your students are done for the night.

- The control paddle on telescope 8 is on the fritz. It would occasionally
randomly reset itself.

- Remind your student to dress warmly! It is AZ, but it gets chilly at night
this time of year.

That is all for now. Good luck!

~Rhonda

*******
*Rhonda K Holton*
*PhD Student, Astrophysics*
*Arizona State University*
*School of Earth and Space Exploration*

